Many of the researchers have already de   ned the various ways of identifying the offensive language in the social media networking sites. They used the existing technique like Natural Language Processing, Blacklist Moderation and text mining for    ltering the content on social media. In the Data Mining, by using a supervised approach of classi   cation, the offensive terms can be detected easily and smartly with the real-time dynamic data.  Under supervised technique, various classi   cation algorithm can be de   ned as Naive Bayes, decision tree, K-Nearest neighbor and support vector machine.  From all this technique, the SVM is more favored than the other techniques. The SVM gives global data classi   cation solution and predict the high accuracy result than the Naive Bayes and other classi   cation technique. The paper by Himani Bhavsar and Mahesh Panchal describes the less computational complexity of the algorithm and stated that the paper can handle the large dataset than existing scale-up methods.
In    Filtering offensive Language in Online Communities using Grammatical Relations    by Zhi Xu and Sencun Zhu more focuses on the    ltering technique instead of actual offensive term detection. They use simple word matching algorithm with an offensive word lexicon to detect the actual offensive words.  The work by Ying Chen,  Yilu  Zhou,  Sencun  Zhu and  Heng  Xu dealt with  offensive  language  detection  by using a Lexical-Syntactic Feature and also using offensiveness content    ltering over a large dataset. They can overcome the problem of the above research paper and more concentrate on actual offensive term identi   cation. They more focused on the lexicons, that insulting sentences can only be detected when containing related words or phrases originated from a lexicon.  They also have distinguished the contribution of pejoratives/profanities and obscenities in determining offensive content.
In    Automated content based short text classification in Facebook    SVM is used to detect offensive  language  behavior  in  an  automated  manner  using  two  technique  query  expansion  and text  categorization.  The    rst technique is used in  order  to effectively  retrieve  relevant  documents  out  of  given  dataset, while  the  second  technique  is  used  to  separate  irrelevant messages  from  messages  containing  racist  or  sexual  abusive language.  Lexicon based text classi   cation and query expansion approach leads complex to handle the large dataset.
The work by Chetan Dalal and Shivyansh Tandon in research paper    Insult Detection in Hindi detects the insult comments for the Hindi language   . This paper overcomes the problem of handle the large dataset. They  use  the  feature  selection  and  based  on  these  features they  build  a  vector  model.  The google translator is used for translating the English insults to Hindi insults. Also, this paper includes technique like Logistic Regression and SVM.
The research by Mr. Shashank H. Yadav and Mr.Pratik M. Manwatkar deals with the pattern matching algorithm for offensive keyword detection and use the Filtration and Automation for prevention of offensive terms. Ms. P. Bhavana and Dr. P. Harini describe Lexical Feature and pejoratives/ obscenities for deciding the abusing provocation and can    nd the casual and incorrect spelling by using the lexical linguistic feature.
In the data Mining using supervised classi   cation techniques, the SVM consider as one of the  best  technique  for classi   cation. Author describe paper Time Complexity Analysis of Support Vector Machines (SVM) in LibSVM They describe  the  time  complexity  of  the  SVM  algorithm. Himani Bhavsar, Mahesh H. Panchal describe the two SVM key features as generalization theory and kernel function. The show distinguish  between  information  and personal  attacks  containing  insulting  or  abusive  expressions and describe the message as Linguistics, insulting or abusive by forming the tree structure.
As comparing with the existing system, the existing system used  to     nd  out  the  offensive  word  which  present  in  their dictionary  or  bag  of  words  by  using  the  Naive  Bayes  and Filtering  techniques  with  low  accuracy.  But  the  proposed system will overcome the limitations of the existing system by properly    nd out the offensive words with the high accuracy and also can be    nd out the words which does not looks like offensive but it actually does.

2.2 Limitation of State-of-the-Art techniques

As of now , the social platforms rely on the options to delete or edit the posts but all such methods are not very efficient when it comes to abundant flow of the profane contents, they also don   t deal with minor challenges like knowing the context of the speech, correctly identifying the misspelled vulgar words, understanding how much profanity to allow as criticism is also a part of social interaction and it also comes as a part of freedom of speech. Such kind of problems can be handled with a filtering solution that can be automated using the method of text pre-processing and Machine learning (ML) algorithm. This provides a lot of challenges to deal with like knowing the context of the speech, correctly identifying the misspelled vulgar words, understanding how much profanity to allow as criticism is also a part of social interaction and it also comes as a part of freedom of speech.


Chapter 3: Problem Definition and Scope

3.1 Problem Definition and Scope
Use of Social Networks is very common these days. Almost majority of the people from age group 15 to 65 are on Social media. This shows the scale in which social media is used today. But this also comes with responsibility, as to how such powerful platforms should be used. Cyber bullying which includes (making fake profiles, uploading nasty posts and pictures, using abusive language, trolling) can seriously affect some one   s image in the society. Thus, there comes a great need to come up with this project that can filter out toxic and abusive comments, therefore making these platforms safer to be used.
Hence, we have proposed a system allowing users to have a direct control on the messages posted on their walls. This is achieved through machine learning algorithm, that allows users to customize the filtering criteria to be applied to their walls, and Machine Learning based classifier (SVM) automatically labeling messages in support of content-based filtering.

